Hip hop labels will choose an artist who's super talented over one who has their act together. After all, a record label can easily help a super talented artist get their act together, but no record label can help an artist who has their act together become super talented.

In indie rock, it's the reverse. Indie labels will always choose the artist who has their act together, over one who's super talented and not much else. In indie rock, talent just isn't worth much. Which makes sense, because in indie rock, the whole point is to celebrate all the time and effort an artist spends hustling. If talent were a thing, then we'd have to wonder why indie artists don't spend all their time and effort cultivating that instead. So indie rock isn't allowed to believe that talent is a thing, just like Trump supporters aren't allowed to believe that any real work preparatory work to become President can possibly be done in a basement.

Throwing out the baby

A generation ago, rock artists hated the music industry so much that they cheered on its demise. Unfortunately, they conflated the music industry with the very concept of interdependence itself, and ended up throwing the baby out with the bathwater. Instead of centralised institutions investing in artistic development with a greater sense of stewardship, there would just be no centralised institutions at all.

In its stead, indie rock promised us a world in which lean, scrappy rock artists race to become full-fledged artists as soon as possible. But is this really the thing that will bring the next rock revolution? And so BYCombo's mission is to bring back the baby, to revive the concept of interdependence in rock music.

Artistic interdependence

Some may balk to be considered a member of the artistic right wing. But it's possible to be both a political socialist and an artistic libertarian. In fact, that's how indie rock will be understood by future generations, as the libertarian movement of the artistic world. "I didn't sit around waiting for a handout from the government. I lifted myself up by the bootstraps!" is exactly the same as "We didn't sit around waiting to be discovered by a record label. We built up a following from the grassroots!"

The thing is, I'm not asking for handouts. I'm asking for recognition that not only do some of us absolutely need interdependence, and it's counterproductive to deny it to us, when interdependence actually leaves everyone better off overall. Those who prefer independence do so only because it leaves *them* better off. So if you can understand a socialist's frustration with having their ideals misrepresented by political libertarians, then you can understand an interdependent artist's frustration with having their ideals misrepresented by artistic libertarians.

Affirmative action

Secretly Canadian was deciding between us and Throw Me the Statue. Obviously, they went with the better band, and signed Throw Me the Statue. But if there had been an affirmative action program in indie rock at the time, they very well may have gone for us instead. And if they had, they would have discovered something, much to their great relief. Namely, that the traditional metrics used by indie rock to compare one white male artist with another are actually not so useful when judging anyone else.

The whole point of affirmative action is to make up for faulty metrics. If women are half the population, if minorities are half the population, and that reality is not reflected in your artist roster, then the problem is with *you*, not with female and minority artists. In time, you will find out that judging artists based on the ease by which they attract bandmates, or win over a small town crowd, necessarily places an unfair disadvantage on minorities, because they're metrics made by white men observing other white men as artists. But you're just not going to have that epiphany right now, because in order to have it, you're going to have to observe successful women and minorities blow apart your metrics. Which means female and minority artists will need to be given a chance *despite* not getting past your faulty metrics. And so affirmative action is there to force you to behave as if this has already happened.

If anything, our affirmative action program is unfair to women and minorities, by capping the minimum at 50%. Remember that when they turned their backs on the major labels, the white male founders of indie rock easily could have come up with a solution that salvaged the concept of interdependence. They didn't, because it's not just the major labels they shunned. What they shunned was the concept of interdependence itself. It's just not what they wanted. Just like the Republican party, the party of independence, tends to be more white and male, whereas the Democratic party, the party of interdependence, tends to be more minority and female. So of all the rock artists out there who desire interdependence over independence, the percentage who are women is almost certainly greater than 50%, as is the percentage who are minorities. Yet our quota is only a 50% minimum.

